#The Solar Grid Soundscapes Part 03 of 09

Release Date: 10/02/2020
Format: Digital
URL:  https://nslasha.bandcamp.com/album/the-solar-grid-soundscape

9/6/2019
Notes:
Listening back to PT3 demos, writing, moving so I'll be making notes and observations and writing until I get settled in the new space.

COVID-19 / POST STUDIO MOVE UPDATES:

After (thankfully) relocating the studio from DTLA, and life / other projects taking up a considerable amount of my time, AND the COVID-19 quarantine shaking things up quite a bit, I'm finally back to working on chapter 3.

I've had most of pt 3 roughed out for some time, but I've had a hard time with the final scene, where our heroine who's posting in the streets of flooded Cairo gets accosted by not just "Bill Paxton" (SEE: the Terminator - Opening scene) but then the filthy cop.
about 2 weeks ago, after a phone call with Ganzy to welcome Mounir to the family, I began again in earnest, as I started to get my music mojo back about a month or so ago, and had been primarily focused on a "new" N/A song, tentatively titled *the Bridge*.
So, I took some time away from that to try again with this scene. The really tricky part for me is the ambience. You see, in a normal city, in todays reality, at night, you'd expect some talking, maybe some sirens, some music from a car or two here or there, but now the city is flooded, so any real traffic is going to be by boat.
not too many pedestrians if you know what I mean, plus its late at night, so how do you place the listener into a location which doesn't exist, using only sounds they are familiar with, and not relying on visuals from the book that they may or may not reference?

8/20/2020

Increasingly heavy headaches and ear ringing due to stress and the heat... Even the small town I grew up in is ablaze in the 100+ heat - this is Cali fire season after all - and the increasing leaning of the climate towards extremes as opposed to California's historically more mild and consistent climate is not helping.

8/22/20

After taking a day trip - yes even in the heat - to just GTFO from the house and the heat and the same ol same ol, I was able to get a little clarity and ease my headaches and even the ringing a bit.
Realized over the last 2 days that I need more sort of 'random' instrumentation in this track, so I added some stringed instruments and worked quite a bit on some samples to massage them into some weirder territory. Pretty happy with the results.

8/25/2020

The last couple of days... more foley, more water FX, more slipping and sliding of the waves and city sounds... at once theres too much sound of the ambience that crowds out the music, and at another time theres not enough sense of space.
This balance is important, and in a moving visual medium more immediate. It's important not to distract from the pacing of the story and for the music to take away from the scene and vice versa.

I'm getting closer to being done with this section. I listened through from the title tag to the end last night, there will be some massaging that needs to happen to make all scenes cohesive, but that is normal. The chase and fight scene towards the end will be my focus for today. Theres some good parts there but not enough cohesion at the moment.

8/27/2020

Still chopping away at the "chase sequence"... there are sounds of the oars on the water, and then foley of the struggle... what I'm trying to achieve is a synced beat with the drums and the strings and the foley sounds, thats not too overwhelming and listenable. I'm close but not there yet...

9/18/2020

Wooooowwwwww... needless to say this scene is kicking my ass. I'm not entirely sure why, but the vibe is great, the sound is good, but I'm just not enjoying it maybe? I've been over a thousand permutations of these last 3 mins of the track, and no dice yet.
I've had a small project or two here and there, but nearly 3 weeks of struggle just on this one bit. I'll keep hacking away at it today, see what I come up with.

9/19/2020

Mix is GREAT, mono is NOT.

9/21/2020

After DAYS of analysis, mono issues are resolved. Learned quite a bit about Orchestral samples and phase issues, particularly with crossfades/reverbs. But I'm done. On to creating the master.

9/22/2020

After a few Ableton Live hiccups yesterday, and only a single correction to the master, I'm done. I sent it to the G Man about 30 mins ago... So long as he's on board, we're G2G. I've begun adding the metadata to BandCamp.

10/2/2020

OKAYYYYYY ITS LIVE. Published it last night for Bandcamp Friday availability. https://nslasha.bandcamp.com/album/the-solar-grid-soundscape
